<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html>
<head>
<title>Untitled document</title>
</head>
<body>
<h2>How i18n works in Yanel</h2>
<h3>Overview</h3>
<p>I18n serves for translating parts of your application to different languages. It uses a message catalogue to look up a message in a given language which is identified by a unique key.</p>
<h3>Example</h3>
<p>This example assumes that you are using the XMLResource (or any other subclass of BasicXMLResource).</p>
<p>Example message catalogue (let's say it's stored in the default repository of your realm, with the path /i18n/foo.xml):</p>
<pre>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?&gt;<br />&lt;messages&gt;<br />  &lt;message key="foo.user"&gt;<br />    &lt;text language="de"&gt;Benutzer&lt;/text&gt;<br />    &lt;text language="en"&gt;User&lt;/text&gt;<br />  &lt;/message&gt;<br />  &lt;message key="foo.logout"&gt;<br />    &lt;text language="de"&gt;Abmelden&lt;/text&gt;<br />    &lt;text language="en"&gt;Log out&lt;/text&gt;<br />  &lt;/message&gt;<br />  &lt;message key="foo.registeredUsers"&gt;<br />    &lt;text language="de"&gt;Es sind {0} Benutzer registriert.&lt;/text&gt;<br />    &lt;text language="en"&gt;{0} users are registered.&lt;/text&gt;<br />  &lt;/message&gt;<br />&lt;/messages&gt;<br /></pre>
<p>To translate text using this catalogue, use the following code in your xslt:<br /><tt><br />&lt;i18n:text xmlns:i18n="http://www.wyona.org/yanel/i18n/1.0" key="foo.user"/&gt;</tt><br /><br />To translate an attribute:<tt><br /><br />&lt;input type="submit" value="foo.logout" i18n:attr="value"/&gt;</tt></p>
<p>Respectivle for multiple attribute translation:</p>
<p>&lt;input type="button" name="Name" value="foo.button.value" title="foo.button.tooltip" i18n:attr="value title"/&gt;</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p>To translate a text with parameters:</p>
<p><tt>&lt;i18n:translate&gt;<br />&#160; &lt;i18n:text key="foo.registeredUsers"/&gt;<br />&#160; &lt;i18n:param&gt;7&lt;/i18n:param&gt;<br />&lt;/i18n:translate&gt;</tt></p>
<p>The catalogue has to be associated with the content. There are two ways to do so:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Resource-specific messages<br />Add a property to the resource configuration file (<a href="resources/what-is-a-resource-type.html">.yanel-rc</a>):</p>
<p><tt>&lt;i18n-catalogue&gt;yanelrepo:/i18n/foo.xml&lt;/i18n-catalogue&gt;</tt></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Realm specific messages<br />Add the following element to your <a href="realm/realm-configuration.html">realm.xml</a>:</p>
<p><tt>&lt;i18n-catalogue&gt;yanelrepo:/i18n/foo.xml&lt;/i18n-catalogue&gt;</tt></p>
</li>
</ol>
<h3>How it works</h3>
<p>There is a transformer (I18nTransformer) which transforms the &lt;i18n:text&gt; elements  into the text messages from the catalogue. If no message is found for a given key and a given language, fallback to the default language is applied. If still no message is found, the transformer inserts the message key.<br /><br />As of today there are three different versions of this transformer in yanel: I18nTransformer, I18nTransformer2, and I18nTransformer3. The first two versions are deprecated. They use a different syntax and they support only plain-text property files as catalogues (ResourceBundles).<br />I18nTransformer3 still supports the old syntax and also allows to use ResourceBundle catalogues, so it's the recommended choice.</p>
<h3>Multiple Catalogues</h3>
<p>It is possible to have more than one catalogue. <br />A resource configuration can have several catalogues, the realm can have one, and Yanel has a global message catalogue. Yanel will look for a message with a given key first in the resource catalogues, then in the realm catalogue, and eventually in the global catalogue.<br /><br /></p>
</body>
</html>